# word2vec in numpy and sentiment analysis using average word vectors

Implementation of a word2vec model in numpy using skip-gram and applying it to perform sentiment analysis.

These are actually solutions to assignment 1 of cs224d. It has been trained on the Stanford Sentiment Treebank. 

## More Training
The model has already been trained for 40000 epochs and the parameters have been stored in .npy file. (took about 3 hours)

To do additional training, in run.py change the value 40000 to a higher value in this line:
```python
wordVectors0 = sgd(
    lambda vec: word2vec_sgd_wrapper(skipgram, tokens, vec, dataset, C, 
    	negSamplingCostAndGradient), 
    wordVectors, 0.3, 40000, None, True, PRINT_EVERY=10)
   ```
 The model will be trained starting from the 40001th iteration.
 
 
 To train the model:
 ```
 $ python run.py
 ```
 At the end of training, a few word vectors will be plotted and saved in a .png file. (the one generated by current model included here)
 
  You can individually run each file to see what it does. (Ignore the NotImplementedError)
 
## Things to be taken care of if integrated to the main bot
 
 The current code is in python2. All the print statements have to be changed while migrating to python3. Rest should be compatible but proper checks have to be made first before integrationg.
 
## Sentiment Analysis
To test the sebtiment Analysis model
```
$ python sentiment.py
```
It will run the simply Softmax Regression model for differrent regularization parameters, choose the best one and predict on the test set based on that. Accuracy is only ~30% but that is what is expected according to the assignment.
Lots of changes can be made.
A multilayer Neural Net would do a better job. (Use tensorflow instead of hardcoded softmaxreg code)

## Resources
Starter code and assignment questions can be found here: http://cs224d.stanford.edu/assignment1/index.html

For Math check solution pdfs here : https://github.com/dcdlwg/stanford_cs224d/tree/master/assignment1/math

## Further Changes
 - [ ] Predict on User Input (Currently it just tests on given test set)
 - [ ] Interactive Learning
 - [ ] Web App
 - [ ] Multi Layer Neural Net for sentiment analysis instead of current Softmax Classifier
 - [ ] Different Approaches to Sentiment Analysis.

I've included as much documentation as possible, will update it. If there is some part you are not clear about please raise an issue and I will include the necessary documentation.

Lot's of improvements are possible. 
